{
    "URL_ID": 58,
    "Article_Title": "Can You Be Great Leader Without Technical Expertise",
    "Article_Text": "The word \u201cleadership\u201d can bring to mind a variety of images. For example, A political leader, pursuing a passionate, personal cause or An executive, developing his/her company\u2019s strategy to beat the competition. Leaders help themselves and others to do the right things. They set direction, build an inspiring vision, and create something new. Leadership is about mapping out where you need to go to \u201cwin\u201d as a team or an organization; and it is dynamic, exciting, and inspiring.\n\n\n\nIn my point of view we cannot become a good leader without technical expertise because every task in the organization it\u2019s required a lot of skills, knowledge, consistent, enthusiastic, patience, motivating, inspiring, industrious, and critical thinking on the basis of the field we are doing. A leader should have the ability to motivate self and others, effective oral and written communication, critical thinking skills at the working team and delegating a task. Good leaders do have these abilities and if we wanted to create a future leader. They need to take in a large volume of information and to take the essential elements that define the core problem to solve. They need to organize a team to solve these problems and to communicate to a group, they need to established trust with a group and use the trust to allow the team to accomplish the work more than it could be done alone. Though all these skills we have but it\u2019s would not sufficient to make us a great leader because to excel and utilize these abilities in practice we need a lot of technical expertise in a particular domain. For example, Like in a hospital if the head of the hospital is lead by other people rather than Doctor then the hospital would become worse at a point because the person from other fields he could not lead and understand the real scenario and mechanism that the hospital is functioning and he would not understand the staff and the patient as well. Hence, to lead the hospital Doctor is deserved who knows his own field how to lead and understand the real scenario of it. That\u2019s why being a leader requires technical expertise to have great knowledge and understanding about his own organization. Every person if they want to become a leader they should have technical expertise on their own organization so that their organization would run smoothly, hence nobody could run other organization if we do not have the technical expertise on that field.\n\n\n\nSo, be a leader, not a boss which makes your life much better, as they\u2019re a saying that \u201c A good objective of leadership is to help those who are doing poorly to do well and to help those who are doing well to do even better.\u201d"
}